# `taste-create-gitignore`

This python script creates a `.gitignore` file given a set of TASTE functions passed as command line arguments. The contents of the autogenerated gitignore allows us to untrack autogenerated files for those functions, except for the files implemented by the user.

## Usage:

`taste-create-gitignore [-dbg] [-f] [-r ROOT] <FUNCTIONS>`

*Where*:
  - `<FUNCTIONS>` space separated list of TASTE functions to be ignored. If empty, the whole `work` directory is ignored (except for the `.gitignore` file)
  - `[-h]` print this help and quit.
  - `[-dbg]` optional flag to run in debug mode and print verbose messages.
  - `[-f]` if a gitignore file exists, overwrite it.
  - `[-r ROOT]` specify the TASTE root project location.
  
## Example

Suppose that you are in the `src` directory, which contains the TASTE project for the ACS use case. Like all TASTE projects, this one contains a `work` directory for all the TASTE functions implementations. However, only a few source and/or modelling files are intended to be modified by the user and won't be updated by the TASTE code generators.
In a real project that uses CVS, it is important to track the changes from these files, and ignore the other ones which will be automatically updated by TASTE.

The following tree shows the source files that were autogenerated by TASTE but are updated by us to implement the TASTE functions' logic, i.e.: this files won't be edited by TASTE anymore. So, the desired `.gitignore` will have to ignore all except the source files shown below.

```
work/
├── acs_algorithm
│   ├── implem
│   │   ├── cfs
│   │   │   └── QGenC
│   │   │       └── src
│   │   │           └── Step.slx
│   │   └── default
│   │       └── QGenAda
│   │           └── src
│   │               └── Step.slx
│   └── QGenC -> implem/cfs/QGenC
│
├── measurer_and_actuator
│   ├── C -> implem/cfs/C
│   └── implem
│       ├── cfs
│       │   └── C
│       │       └── src
│       │           └── measurer_and_actuator.c
│       └── default
│           └── Ada
│               └── src
│                   └── measurer_and_actuator.adb
│
└── simulated_acs_hw
    ├── C -> implem/cfs/C
    └── implem
        ├── cfs
        │   └── C
        │       └── src
        │           └── simulated_acs_hw.c
        └── default
            └── Ada
                └── src
                    └── simulated_acs_hw.adb
```

Run the following command to autogenerate the `.gitignore`:
```console
../scripts/taste-create-gitignore -r . -f work/acs_algorithm/ \
                                          work/measurer_and_actuator/ \
                                          work/simulated_acs_hw/
```
*Note that*:
- The `-r .` option specifies the directory of the TASTE project location, in this case it can be omitted since it's the current directory.
- The `-f` flag forces the creation of this file, i.e.: if the file exists, its contents are overwritten.
- The last three parameters contain the taste functions paths. The script will ignore everything except the hand-written files from these functions.
- It is not mandatory to specify the relative path from the TASTE functions, the `work/` dirnames can be omitted.
